1) REST(Representational State Transfer) is an architecture Style 
follow some steps(or requierements) for creating a web Services.

while RESTFUL is the name of all services web follow the REST Style.

2)I will be simulate an example for more explanations :

suppose we have many clients each client send request to server and wait for response
the next steep the API recieves HTTP requests from clients and does the request for all
clients in another word pass the request to the server for handle it , after that the 
server gives the response to the API and the API send a response in JSON/XML format to 
the cliens.




3)
-HTTP/GET in RESTful : Retrieves data from the server using Id.
-HTTP/POST in RESTful : is usually used for creating an entity.
-HTTP/PUT  in RESTful : used to update an existing entity.we need be passed an Id
of this entity.

-HTTP/DELETE : Removes the resource from the server.we need be passed an Id




4) one of the important difference beetween the stateful and stateless protocol is that 
the stateful  require the server to retain the status information or session details 
while stateless doesn't;

this is one of the feamous differences but not only :
stateful                                                stateless
-tight dependency between the                           no tight dependency between
server and client.                                      server and client.

-handle transaction very slowly                         handle very fast.

-heavy to implement an internet.                        easy to implement an internet.

the Protocol HTTP is Stateless.

5) the GET and POST are different and specificly in data transfer or (parameters) providing from a formulaire
for example, GET is not secure beacause he showing data in URL-Location maybe sensitive Like (password)
and we have a limited size to transport the data while POST is Secure and not showing 
the data in URL-Location and we don't have a limited size to transport data.

6)the problem in general comes from understanding the problem so the first instinct 
is to make sure that I have understood the problem. in case it happens
I ask the question to someone more experienced or to look on the net in order
to find an indication or a solution (in a particular or incomplete case) 
which could be adapted or use as a model to solve the problem.